---
title: "HyperConverged Position Paper"
date: 2018-10-01T13:36:14-04:00
draft: false 
---

### OBJECTIVE 

To compete and maintain relevance in todays business climate IT needs to simplify and accelerate the delivery of infrastructure platforms. The way that we procure, assemble, and manage these systems therefore directly affects that goal. Modern compute, storage, and network platforms continue to advance in performance and capability and consequently increase in complexity. The ability to obtain, train, and retain staff resources to efficiently integrate and maintain this composite IT structure is becoming harder to sustain. Integrated infrastructure platforms which combine hardware and software in a pretested and integrated solution can mitigate these challenges and should be considered as a solution. By leveraging these scalable and supportable integrated platforms IT can concentrate on quickly delivering more stable and impactful IT applications and services, indeed value, to developers and line of business customers. 

### IN SCOPE

DellEMC integrated infrastructure products
## OUT OF SCOPE

3rd party vendor solutions, SDS specific solutions

## BACKGROUND & DEFINITIONS
The rise in quality and availability of integrated hardware and software component stacks now makes them a viable choice for enterprise data center deployments. While new vendors continue to enter the market it remains dominated by a few companies (see appendix 1). The key benefits are reduction in time to deploy into production and a simplification of operational requirements. Broadly defined as integrated infrastructure systems (IIS) by Gartner (Rozeman, 2016) these new models fall into four general categories:

- Integrated infrastructure systems, also referred to as converged infrastructure (CI)
- Hyper-converged infrastructure systems (HCI)
- Integrated software systems (ISS)
- Reference architecture systems (RAS)

All integrated infrastructure solutions share a common philosophy; pre-integrated and tested components managed through a common set of tools. The IIS systems rely on software defined systems, networking, and storage products to deliver value in a consistent and automated way. These are delivered from a single vendor, with annual or bi-annual release of software and hardware certification matrices. All IIS solutions utilize virtualization as a foundational component and assume all workloads are delivered on hypervisor platforms.
Converged Infrastructure solutions use a more traditional approach to architecture and are not as fully integrated as HCI systems. The largest difference is in the way storage is presented. Large controller based arrays are connected to the servers via fibre channel or iSCSI protocols with traffic converged at top of rack. These storage arrays, which are now primarily all-flash based, are purpose built for performance and protection and offer advanced data service offerings. Network and storage traffic is transported using converged network adapters (CNA). Administrators will need to utilize domain specific interfaces for SAN or LAN configuration which is unlike HCI's single management plane. All hardware including top of rack SAN and LAN switches, arrays, compute blades, virtualization software, and management tools are integrated, installed, tested, and delivered by the vendor. Customers can also utilize servers for bare metal operating systems installations under certain reference architecture implementations such as SAP HANA.

Hyper Converged systems also offers a modular, pre-assembled, and tested stack that combines compute with storage. While not perfect for every workload they present a simple to install and maintain platform that is easy to scale and support. These systems do not use a large controller based array and instead rely on HDD and SSD devices installed in each server. The actual method of providing the software storage controller varies by vendor with some using a separate VM while other use kernel modules in the hypervisor. The removal of the array can lower hardware and storage administration costs albeit at the expense of advanced data services. The storage is configured and managed using a software defined storage (SDS) system to aggregate and present the media as a single storage provider. The compute and storage are tightly integrated and converged as a single management system. HCI platforms do not always include an integrated Ethernet switch and can leave the network configuration decisions to the customers. Since servers are modular or rack mount, with multiple NIC’s, there can be high network port requirements for top of rack switches unlike the CI platform. Newer HCI systems now include software defined networking (SDN) solutions and move network management under a central control plane. Compute and storage elements in HCI platforms may not always scale independently which can challenge capacity planning and utilization. The selection of SAN like SDS solutions will also require a more storage specific skill set from administrators than would be required with and embedded SDS. Organizations should also insure that staff from domain specific groups can share a single or central management plane.

The Integrated Software System platforms are based on either CI of HCI systems but include a higher level layer of software integration that is application or service specific. Solutions tend to favor CI platforms since tuning and domain specific configuration provide the value. Examples are cloud management platforms such as EHC or Azure Stack or application specific solutions such as Exchange or SAP.

RFA solutions include the best practices and validated designs from the vendor. They diverge from formal integrated infrastructure solutions by allowing the customer to influence certain decisions on service configuration, support, or deployment. As an example existing arrays, switches or management infrastructure reuse may be preferred. They are based on, and are assume to follow, the published support matrices. RFA systems present a template from which to build solutions. This allows for a simple and supportable procurement process while allowing flexibility in how the solution is used. 

## Conclusion
The selection of integrated infrastructure solutions can simplify ordering processes, insure component consistency, and provide stability in the data center by eliminating assembly and hand-on-keyboard tasks.  With a balance of speed, agility, stability, and quality being top attributes that customers want to see from IT we should consider shifting from custom built platforms to integrated systems for general purpose, non-mission critical production workloads or development and testing. By leveraging a pre-tested and validated solution operations staff can eliminate bespoke servers configurations, reduce manual intervention, accelerate deployment, and provide higher level SLA’s to their customers. Standard and modular building blocks support scalability and agility in expanding service. These feature promote an assurance of predictability and interoperability across stack components that supports baseline agreements on service levels. The ability to abstract and overcome these complexities by integrating a comprehensive software and hardware solution can ease the burden on staff. Integrated Infrastructure solutions are focused on supporting a large percentage of workloads but will not be sufficient for every workload. As such reference architectures and build for purpose should also be considered where application specific performance or configuration requirements are abnormal. Before embarking on any significant infrastructure decisions several areas must be evaluated and reviewed. These include application support, performance requirements, support constraints, and vendor relations.

The decision to buy versus build is a primary reason to consider evaluating an IIS solution. The move to vendor installed and maintained integrated systems represents a shift in process and personnel as well as a technical change to the organization. If a primary challenge is in providing a standard platform in a timely manner then IIS solutions should be investigated. Staffing models may also contribute to the decision process. The ability of an organization to keep pace with an increasingly complicated and unified set of hardware and software is difficult to maintain may not directly translate into increased business value. By eliminating tedious testing, installation, and configuration tasks staff can be redirected to focusing on innovation and creativity and providing more impactful services to consumers. It should be noted that in deciding to pursue a IIS system model you may be delegating responsibility for future resource expansion and maintenance tasks exclusively to the vendor. This can challenge change management process and scheduling. A detailed financial analysis of platforms purchased, built, or adapted from reference architecture should be conducted. Scrutiny should be placed on how effective IIS is compared to other solutions and can the workloads fit without major re-write. If CI systems are used for production while HCI systems are used for development and test you must insure compatibility as workloads move along the release pipeline between CVI and HCI platforms. Attention should be placed on vendor roadmaps and refresh cycles to avoid lock in or obsolescence. Reference architecture options may give you more flexibility in using local staff and for maintenance and management while still leveraging integrated support matrices and vendor testing capabilities. 
In order to keep pace with changing business demands organizations should consider the time to deliver value as a principal objective. Evaluation of the time from arrival at dock to delivery from customer, in both hours, teams required, and hand off points should be calculated to determine the most efficient solutions. The ability to build a system is not material to the business; the ability to react and deliver solutions quickly matters most. Solutions should also be able to seamlessly plug into cloud management platforms by having standard integration points/connectors. For IT service offerings that must support capacity as well as consistency the ability to provision and expand at scale favors the modular approach of CI and HCI platforms. This requires an acknowledgement that foundational data center services are already in place and can support rapidly expanding workloads. 
Data center wide transformation initiatives including facility retirement, capacity, and use of cloud providers should be reviewed. Study must be given to the overall data center strategy including whether to align on a single platform strategy or maintain some aspects of the existing legacy platform strategy. The testing and integration of switching components must also be evaluated before a single IIS platform strategy is selected. A review and possible redesign of the enterprise data center network is required with focus on latency, bandwidth, routing, and support for overlay networks. Existing infrastructure refresh cycles and immediate purchase planning should be taken into account when deciding on a single strategy.

Equally important to the technology decisions are a significant focus and effort on transforming processes and the organization to adopt to IIS and cloud enhanced data center platforms. Staff should transition away from manual tasks and inter-group handoffs and focus on automation and service delivery. Domain specific silos will need to be reevaluated as teams merge within a common tool sets. A central unified management plane, which may be available with certain IIS systems, can help to align staff resources against a common infrastructure strategy. Modular components and standardization can provide a finite set of service deliverables. This may diverge from legacy “build for purpose” or customer experience goals. The savings from an operational perspective can help to lessen the burden on experienced infrastructure staff and shift those resources to ones you can deliver business value in other areas of IT such as automation, analytics, security, etc. By simplifying the installation, operation and administration of traditionally complex hardware and software stacks IT can focus on agility and innovation in the support of driving the business forward.
A more detailed analysis of application profiles and specific requirements should be completed before deciding on the use of infrastructure solution. This should include an understanding of service mapping and service levels and should be researched separately and presented in a detailed architecture specification. Workload placement policies are a key factor in deciding the infrastructure underlay.  

## GUIDING PRINCIPLES
* Legacy EMC data centers have standardized on CI and ISS solutions as a standard platform. This strategy be augmented with HCI and reference architectures 
* Legacy Dell has benefitted from standardized reference architecture deployments with their blade chassis approach and front end automation portals. The newly combined IT organization must enhance and augment this with both CI and HCI solutions where appropriate.
* Enterprise Architects should focus on evolving or new computing trends such as in-memory computing, new processor technologies, GPUs, FPGAs, faster interconnects and new persistence storage trends. 
* Cloud scale use cases should consider buying modular IIS instead of building it themselves due to reasons of cost and agility.
* Pre-engineered and tested integrated infrastructure platforms will insure consistent and repeatable installation and fast delivery of service
* CI and HCI will accelerate the time to value for business units at the expense of some loss of control
* IIS platforms with software defined storage, networking, and infrastructure are foundational to a modern data center
DIRECTIVES
* Organization and process transformation must happen at the same pace as technology changes
* The staff in the IT organization along with its processes must be transformed to align with the Dell IT vision and mission. 
* A finite set of well understood and documented service levels are required for efficient workload placement
* No single infrastructure platform architecture (CI, HCI, ISS, or RAS) will satisfy every workload demand. 
*Evaluation of the business requirements must guide placement decisions.
* Cloud platforms must be built for capacity and scaling
* Automation must be the standard method for component and service delivery
* Security must be engineered into any solution from the onset of architecture activities 
* Mission critical applications should leverage large enterprise class arrays to support disaster recovery requirements
* Workloads that exhibit homogenous characteristics and consume unit vCPU/vMem/vStorage configurations without skew towards a single resource should be standardized on HCI platforms. Examples are containers and Hadoop clusters.
* Common standards must be adopted across both legacy Dell and legacy EMC data centers.
* Build resources should focus on value creation. This includes delivering new capabilities and services, optimizing existing resources, manage the lifecycle of the applications, deeper integration on application and infrastructure
* 
## RECOMMENDED APPROACH
Workloads requiring high levels of performance and availability, or a controller based array, will benefit from a CI platform. Although Gartner estimates   that by 2020 approximately 30% of traditional storage arrays will migrate to SDS they also predict that 20% of mission critical systems will move to HCI in the same time period. This infers that 60-70% of today’s traditional legacy and mission critical applications can be hosted on a converged infrastructure platform with a large controller based array. The arrays can deliver the performance, availability, replication, non-disruptive upgrades and protection not seen with other solutions. Given these array characteristics, along with performance and redundancy in the blade chassis design, these CI platforms such as the VxBlock should be considered for all legacy, scale-up, mission critical, and production applications including production Oracle and MSSQL RDBMS, SAP, SAP HANA, Oracle E-Business, and Exchange.

Data center environments that are focused on improving time to value and reduce manual operational tasks should use HCI platforms like VxRack or VxRail. While not suited for every workload type HCI should be considered for VDI, non-mission critical production, , ROBO/SMB, all SQL and non-SQL databases, dedicated app environments, Hadoop, PCF, containers, cloud native 12-factor, cold start clusters, and as resource pool endpoints for automation and cloud management platforms. Depending on the performance or availability service levels required certain mission critical applications could be also be hosted here. 

Certain workloads will demand a purpose built configuration and the ability to customize the components to meet very specific criteria. Examples may include high performance RDBMS, vertically scaled, latency sensitive, or fault tolerant applications. If specific benefits can only be realized from custom configurations and internal control then CI or HCI platforms may not be the best choice.
